README update for async/await (#254)
vapor/postgres-nio: README.md

<a href="https://github.com/swift-server/sswg/blob/main/process/incubation.md#graduated-level">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/sswg-incubating-green.svg" alt="SSWG Incubating">

> </a>

Author: Fixed

<br>
<br>

# PostgresNIO

> 🐘 Non-blocking, event-driven Swift client for PostgreSQL built on [SwiftNIO].

Author: Let's keep this as is and change once we have a better idea.

- An async/await interface that supports backpressure 
- Converting Swift primitive types to and from the Postgres wire format
- Integrates with the Swift server ecosystem, by using swift-log
- Supports running Linux through NIOPosix on running Darwin through Network.framework and NIOTS

PostgresNIO does not have a ConnectionPool as of today – but this is a feature high on our list. If 
you need a ConnectionPool today, please have a look at Vapor's [PostgresKit]. 

## API Docs

Check out the [PostgresNIO API docs](https://api.vapor.codes/postgres-nio/main/PostgresNIO/) for a 
detailed look at all of the classes, structs, protocols, and more.

## Getting started

#### Adding the dependency

Add `PostgresNIO` as dependency to your Package.swift:

```swift
  dependencies: [
    .package(url: "https://github.com/vapor/postgres-nio.git", from: "1.8.0"),
    ...
  ]
```

Add `PostgresNIO` to the target you want to use it in:
```swift
  targets: [
    .target(name: "MyFancyTarget", dependencies: [
      .product(name: "PostgresNIO", package: "postgres-nio"),
    ])
  ]
```

#### Creating a connection

> PostgresNIO is a server-side

Author: Removed.

To create a connection you should first create a connection configuration object.

```swift
import PostgresNIO

let config = PostgresConnection.Configuration(
   connection: .init(
     host: "localhost",
     port: 5432
   ),
   authentication: .init(
     username: "my_username",
     database: "my_database",
     password: "my_password"
   ),
   tls: .disable
)
```

> Next you will need a SwiftNIO EventLoop to create your connection on. In most server use-cases you 
> create the EventLoopGroup on your app's startup and you close it once you shutdown your app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A connection must be created on a SwiftNIO `EventLoop`. In most server use cases, an`EventLoopGroup` is created at app startup and closed during app shutdown.
```

```swift
import NIOPosix

let eventLoopGroup = MultiThreadedEventLoopGroup(numberOfThreads: 1)

// Much later
try eventLoopGroup.syncShutdown()
```

> Last you will need a Logger.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `Logger` is also required.
```
(Can we elaborate at all on why one is needed?)

```swift
import Logging

let logger = Logger(label: "postgres-logger")
```

Now we can put it together:

```swift
import PostgresNIO
import NIOPosix
import Logging

let eventLoopGroup = MultiThreadedEventLoopGroup(numberOfThreads: 1)
let logger = Logger(label: "postgres-logger")

let config = PostgresConnection.Configuration(
   connection: .init(
     host: "localhost",
     port: 5432
   ),
   authentication: .init(
     username: "my_username",
     database: "my_database",
     password: "my_password"
   ),
   tls: .disable
)

let connection = try await PostgresConnection.connect(
  on eventLoop: eventLoopGroup.next(),
  configuration: config,
  id connectionID: 1,
  logger: logger
)

// Close your connection once done
try await connection.close()

// Shutdown the EventLoopGroup, once all connections are closed.
try eventLoopGroup.syncShutdown()
```

#### Querying

> Once you have a connection you can start to query your server. This is very straightforward:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once a connection is established, queries can be sent to the server. This is very straightforward:
```

```swift
let rows = try await connection.query("SELECT id, username, birthday FROM users", logger: logger)
```

> The query will return a [`PostgresRowSequence`], which is an AsyncSequence of [`PostgresRow`]s. You can 
> consume the rows 1 by 1: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The query will return a [`PostgresRowSequence`], which is an AsyncSequence of [`PostgresRow`]s. The rows can be iterated one-by-one: 
```

```swift
for try await row in rows {
  // do something with the row
}
```

#### Decoding from PostgresRow

> However in most cases you want to cast a row directly into Swift primitive datatypes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, in most cases it is much easier to request a row's fields as a set of Swift types:
```

```swift
for try await (id, username, birthday) in rows.decode((Int, String, Date).self, context: .default) {
  // do something with the datatypes.
}
```

> To be able to decode a Postgres value to a Swift struct, the type needs to implement the 
> `PostgresDecodable` protocol. PostgresNIO has default implementations for a number of Swift 
> primitives:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A type must implement the `PostgresDecodable` protocol in order to be decoded from a row. PostgresNIO provides default implementations for most of Swift's builtin types, as well as some types provided by Foundation:
```

> - Bool
> - Bytes, Data, ByteBuffer
> - Date
> - UInt8, Int16, Int32, Int64, Int, Float, Double
> - String
> - UUID

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Bool`
- `Bytes`, `Data`, `ByteBuffer`
- `Date`
- `UInt8`, `Int16`, `Int32`, `Int64`, `Int`
- `Float`, `Double`
- `String`
- `UUID`
```

> #### Quering with parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Querying with parameters
```

> Sending parameterized queries to the database is also supported. (In the coolest way possible):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sending parameterized queries to the database is also supported (in the coolest way possible):
```

```swift
let id = 1
let username = "fancyuser"
let birthday = Date()
try await connection.query("""
  INSERT INTO users (id, username, birthday) VALUES (\(id), \(username), \(birthday))
  """, 
  logger: logger
)
```

> Yes, that looks like [SQL injection](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SQL_injection) 😱, but this is 
> actually save in PostgresNIO. The first parameter, of the query function is not a String, but a 
> PostgresQuery, that implements the `ExpressibleByStringInterpolation` protocol. For this reason, 
> PostgresNIO uses the static string as the SQL and the interpolation parameters as the bindings of 
> the query. To interpolate values into the query, your values need to implement the 
> `PostgresEncodable` protocol. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While this looks at first glance like a classic case of [SQL injection](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SQL_injection) 😱, PostgresNIO's API ensures that this usage is safe. The first parameter of the `query(_:logger:)` method is not a plain `String`, but a `PostgresQuery`, which implements Swift's `ExpressibleByStringInterpolation` protocol. PostgresNIO uses the literal parts of the provided string as the SQL query and replaces each interpolated value with a parameter binding. Only values which implement the `PostgresEncodable` protocol may be interpolated in this way. As with `PostgresDecodable`, PostgresNIO provides default implementations for most common types.
```

> For some queries you won't receive any rows from the server (mainly `INSERT`, `UPDATE` and `DELETE`). 
> To make the API support this, the result of the `query` function is an `@discardableResult`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some queries do not receive any rows from the server (most often `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, and `DELETE` queries with no `RETURNING` clause, not to mention most DDL queries). To support this, the `query(_:logger:)` method is marked `@discardableResult`, so that the compiler does not issue a warning if the return value is not used. 
```

## Security

Please see [SECURITY.md](https://github.com/vapor/.github/blob/main/SECURITY.md) for details on the security process.

[EventLoopGroupConnectionPool]: https://github.com/vapor/async-kit/blob/main/Sources/AsyncKit/ConnectionPool/EventLoopGroupConnectionPool.swift
[AsyncKit]: https://github.com/vapor/async-kit/

> [SwiftNIO]: https://github.com/apple/swift-nio

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[SwiftNIO]: https://github.com/apple/swift-nio
[SwiftLog]: https://github.com/apple/swift-log
```

<br>
<br>

🐘 Non-blocking, event-driven Swift client for PostgreSQL built on [SwiftNIO].

Features:

- A `PostgresConnection` which allows you to connect to, authorize with, query, and retrieve results from a PostgreSQL server
- An async/await interface that supports backpressure 
- Automatic conversions between Swift primitive types and the Postgres wire format
- Integrated with the Swift server ecosystem, including use of [SwiftLog].
- Designed to run efficiently on all supported platforms (tested extensively on Linux and Darwin systems)
- Support for `Network.framework` when available (e.g. on Apple platforms)

> PostgresNIO does not have a `ConnectionPool` as of today, but this is a feature high on our list. If 
> you need a `ConnectionPool` today, please have a look at Vapor's [PostgresKit]. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PostgresNIO does not have a `ConnectionPool` as of today, but this is a feature high on our list. If you need a `ConnectionPool` today, please have a look at Vapor's [PostgresKit]. 
```
Again whitespace.

## API Docs

> Check out the [PostgresNIO API docs](https://api.vapor.codes/postgres-nio/main/PostgresNIO/) for a 
> detailed look at all of the classes, structs, protocols, and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check out the [PostgresNIO API docs](https://api.vapor.codes/postgres-nio/main/PostgresNIO/) for a detailed look at all of the classes, structs, protocols, and more.
```
Another extremely minor whitespace nit.

## Getting started

#### Adding the dependency

Add `PostgresNIO` as dependency to your `Package.swift`:

```swift
  dependencies: [
    .package(url: "https://github.com/vapor/postgres-nio.git", from: "1.8.0"),
    ...
  ]
```

Add `PostgresNIO` to the target you want to use it in:
```swift
  targets: [
    .target(name: "MyFancyTarget", dependencies: [
      .product(name: "PostgresNIO", package: "postgres-nio"),
    ])
  ]
```

#### Creating a connection

To create a connection, first create a connection configuration object:

```swift
import PostgresNIO

let config = PostgresConnection.Configuration(
   connection: .init(
     host: "localhost",
     port: 5432
   ),
   authentication: .init(
     username: "my_username",
     database: "my_database",
     password: "my_password"
   ),
   tls: .disable
)
```

> A connection must be created on a SwiftNIO `EventLoop`. In most server use cases, an 
> `EventLoopGroup` is created at app startup and closed during app shutdown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A connection must be created on a SwiftNIO `EventLoop`. In most server use cases, an  `EventLoopGroup` is created at app startup and closed during app shutdown.
```
Extremely minor whitespace formatting nit. Single-line-per-paragraph with word-wrapping usually works better with Markdown for me.
